---
layout: post
title: "Javascript"
date: 2023-03-01
---
In my week 5, I learned proxy function which is used to create proxy objects. The ```proxy()``` constructor is used to create new proxy objects. we can use target as an object for which you want to create the proxy and handler is the object that defines the custom behaviour of the proxy. I also learned ```handler()``` function with proxy. An empty handler will create a proxy that behaves, in almost all respects, exactly like the target. By defining any of a set group of functions on the handler object, you can customize specific aspects of the proxy's behavior.

The syntax will go like this 
```
new Proxy(target, handler)
````
I became familiar with ```typedarray``` constructor serves as the common superclass of all ```typedarray``` subclass. Also, functions like weakset and reflect. Statements 'const' and 'continue' is also very important functions to learn and define.

Here, is an example;

```
// Create a WeakSet
let myWeakSet = new WeakSet();

// Create an object
let obj1 = {};

// Add object to WeakSet
myWeakSet.add(obj1);

// Check if object is in WeakSet
console.log(myWeakSet.has(obj1)); // true

// Delete object from WeakSet
myWeakSet.delete(obj1);

// Check if object is in WeakSet after deletion
console.log(myWeakSet.has(obj1)); // false
```
The part where I found the weakset harder, Defining the weakset function and the complexity of defining the classes and the functions in it. In the above example, we create a new WeakSet called myWeakSet. We then create a new object obj1 and add it to the WeakSet using the ```add()``` method. We check if the object is in the WeakSet using the ```has()``` method, which returns true. We then delete the object from the WeakSet using the ```delete()``` method and check if it's still in the WeakSet using ```has()```, which returns false.

A WeakSet is similar to a Set, but it can only contain objects and those objects are held weakly. This means that if an object in the WeakSet is no longer referenced anywhere else in the code, it can be garbage collected even if it's still in the WeakSet.