---
layout: post
title: "Current State of TWA project"
date: 2023-07-25
---

# The Evolution of Project TWA: A Glimpse into Our Progress

Hello, dear readers!

Today, I'm thrilled to provide an update on the current state of our beloved Project Transformative Workforce Academy. As many of you know, this project began as a simple idea in a open-source software engineering class. Fast forward to today, and it's blossoming into a tool that we believe will revolutionize the way we interact with digital platforms.

# What's Up and Running?

First and foremost, let's talk about our successes. The core functionality of Project TWA, which is the intuitive user interface, is now fully operational. This means that users can now navigate through the platform with ease, accessing features and tools without the need for a steep learning curve. The admin dashboard, Now has a feature to search and filter through the database. Also, Only admins can register other admins.

# Recent Milestones

Our team recently celebrated a significant achievement: the deployment of the project TWA on Docker. Now, the users can run the application with a single click. I created three docker containers to run frontend, backend and the database and also createad a docker-compose file so that all the three containers can talk to eachother and to run the application with a single click.

# What's Next on the Horizon?

With the core features in place, our next big challenge is the development of the mobile application for Project TWA. We recognize the increasing shift towards mobile usage, and we want our platform to be accessible anytime, anywhere. This mobile version will not just be a replica of the desktop platform but will be optimized for the mobile experience, ensuring speed, efficiency, and user-friendliness.

A Personal Reflection

On a more personal note, being a part of this project has been a roller-coaster of emotions. There were days filled with frustration when lines of code just wouldn't cooperate, and then there were moments of sheer joy when everything clicked into place. But throughout this journey, the unwavering passion and dedication of the team have been the driving force. Every challenge faced was an opportunity for growth, and every milestone achieved was a testament to our collective effort.

In Conclusion

Project TWA is not just a tool; it's a vision. A vision of simplifying digital interactions, of making technology more accessible, and of constantly evolving based on user needs. We're incredibly proud of how far we've come, but we're even more excited about the journey ahead.

Stay tuned for more updates, and as always, thank you for being a part of this incredible journey!