---
layout: post
title: "Javascript"
date: 2023-02-15
---
In my week 3, I learned how to create a class and in JavaScript, Also, How to add objects in a class. I learned inheritance in javascript, Inheritance is a way to create a new class based on an existing class, with the new class inheriting the properties and methods of the existing class. In JavaScript, we can achieve inheritance using the extends keyword. I also learned, In JavaScript, scope refers to the visibility and accessibility of variables. Here's an example of global and local scope. At last, I understood how to write try...catch functions. we can use the try...catch block to handle errors in JavaScript.

```
try {
    // some code that might throw an error
  } catch (error) {
    console.log('An error occurred:', error.message);
  }
```
One of the problems I faced was in try...catch(error handling) is making sure that you are handling errors appropriately based on the context in which they occur. In some cases, you might want to throw an error and stop the execution of your program, while in other cases, you might want to catch and handle the error so that your program can continue running.

Lets have a look at an example,
```
function divide(a, b) {
  if (b === 0) {
    throw new Error('Cannot divide by zero');
  }
  return a / b;
}

try {
  let result = divide(10, 0);
  console.log(result);
} catch (error) {
  console.log(error.message);
}

```
In this example, we define a function called divide that takes two arguments and returns the result of dividing the first argument by the second argument. However, if the second argument is zero, we throw an error with the message "Cannot divide by zero".

In the try block, we call the divide function with the arguments 10 and 0, which should trigger an error. We then catch the error in the catch block and log the error message to the console.

When you run this code, you should see the following output in the console:
```
Cannot divide by zero
```
This is an example of error handling.