---
layout: post
title: "Javascript"
date: 2023-03-31
---

**MINI-PROJECT REFLECTION REPORT**
My group members and I developed a Todo application using pure JavaScript for our mini-project. We also designed APIs that can transmit and receive JSON objects as identifiers.

**SKILLS WHICH I LEARNED DURING THIS PROJECT**
Over the last few weeks, I have acquired knowledge in the fundamental concepts of JavaScript programming language such as variable declaration and object creation, as well as the concepts of exporting libraries and assigning ports. I have been able to apply these newly acquired skills to create a GET request for the Todo Application.

To elaborate further, defining variables and objects are essential concepts in JavaScript programming. Variables are used to store values that can be changed or manipulated during runtime, while objects are used to group related data and functions together. Exporting libraries and assigning ports, on the other hand, are important concepts for building modular and scalable applications. Exporting libraries allow us to make functions and variables available to other parts of our codebase, while assigning ports allow us to specify which port our application should listen on for incoming requests.

Using these concepts, I was able to create a GET request for the Todo Application. A GET request is a type of HTTP request that retrieves data from a server. In this case, I used JavaScript to send a GET request to the server hosting the Todo Application, which allowed me to retrieve data from the application and display it in the browser. This is just one example of how the concepts of defining variables and objects, exporting libraries, and assigning ports can be applied to real-world programming tasks.

**ADDITIONAL SKILLS I LEARNED DURING COMPLETING MY TASK***
Through this project, I gained additional skills in various areas such as creating GET requests, implementing body parsing middleware, and passing todo items as parameters. One aspect of the project that was completely new to me was working with the todo router.

To elaborate, creating a GET request involved learning how to retrieve information from a server by specifying a URL and getting a response back in a specified format, such as JSON. I also learned about body parsing middleware, which is a type of software that helps to parse the request body of incoming HTTP requests to a server, making it easier to work with the data.

In addition, passing todo items as parameters required me to understand how to pass data between different parts of the application, such as between the client and server. This skill is crucial for building robust and scalable applications.

**CHALLENGES WHICH I FACED DURING THIS PROJECT**
One challenge I faced while creating the following code is understanding how to properly structure and organize the code in a modular way.

```
module.exports = (todos) => {
    const express = require('express');
    const router = express.Router();
    // GET endpoint to retrieve all todo items
    router.get('/', (req, res) => {
      res.send(todos);
    });
    return router;
  }; 
```

In the code above, the function exports a router object that handles the GET request to retrieve all todo items. However, if we have multiple endpoints or routes to handle, we may need to create additional router objects and modularize your code further.

To overcome this challenge, I considered using a framework such as Express to help with the organization and routing of my application. Express provides a built-in router that allows you to define multiple endpoints and routes in a modular way.